[Panels](http://wiki.cytoscape.org/Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels)
========================================================================================

What are Panels?
----------------

**Panels** are floatable/dockable panels designed to cut down on the
number of pop-up windows within Cytoscape and to create a more unified
user experience. They are named based on their functions -- **Control
Panel**, **Table Panel**, **Tool Panel** and **Result Panel**. The
following screenshot shows the file `galFiltered.sif` loaded into
Cytoscape, with a force-directed layout, **Align and Distribute** tools
showing in the **Tool Panel**, and with results from Network Analyzer
(**Tools → Network Analysis → Analyze Network**). The **Control Panel**
(at the left-hand side of the screen) contains the Network Manager,
Network Overview, Styles and Select tabs. On the bottom of the panel,
there is another panel called **Tool Panel**. In the **Table Panel**,
the **Node Table** is shown. In addition, analysis results from Network
Analyzer are shown in **Result Panel** (at the right-hand side).

![Panels.png](http://wiki.cytoscape.org//Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Panels.png)

The user can then choose to resize, hide or float Panels. For example,
in the screenshot below, the Network, Table and Results panels are
floating and the Tool Panel is hidden:

![Panels-float.png](http://wiki.cytoscape.org//Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Panels-float.png)

Basic Usage
-----------

Cytoscape includes four Panels: the **Control Panel** on the left,
**Tool Panel** on the bottom of the **Control Panel**, the **Table
Panel** on the bottom right, and the **Result Panel** on the right. By
default, only the **Control Panel** and the **Data Panel** will appear.
The **Result Panel** may appear, depending on the mix of Cytoscape apps
that you currently have installed. The **Tool Panel** will appear when
you select the following commands under the **Layout** menu: **Rotate**,
**Scale**, and **Align and Distribute**.

All panels can be shown or hidden using the **View → Show/Hide**
functions.

![cytopanel-menu-items.png](http://wiki.cytoscape.org//Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=cytopanel-menu-items.png)

In addition, Panels can be floated or docked using icon buttons at the
top right corner of each Panel. The **Float Window** control
![FloatWindow-v31.png](http://wiki.cytoscape.org//Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=FloatWindow-v31.png)
will undock any panel which is useful when you want assign the network
panel as much screen space as possible. To dock the window again, click
the **Dock Window** icon
![DockWindow.png](http://wiki.cytoscape.org//Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=DockWindow.png).
Clicking the **Hide Panel** icon
![HideWindow.png](http://wiki.cytoscape.org//Cytoscape_3/UserManual/Panels?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=HideWindow.png)
will hide the panel; this can be shown again by choosing **View → Show**
and selecting the relevant panel.
